  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  ![Description: cee\_3line\_b\_4c\_pc\_\[Converted\]](media/image1.wmf){width="3.2916666666666665in" height="0.7708333333333334in"}   ![Description: https://confluence.cornell.edu/download/attachments/10420888/aguaclara\_new\_logo.jpg](media/image2.jpeg){width="2.7395833333333335in" height="0.8229166666666666in"}
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

**[PRELIMINARY DESIGN FOR]{.smallcaps} [UI.City UI.State,
UI.Country]{.smallcaps}**

**[UI.Name]{.smallcaps}**

**[UI.Organization]{.smallcaps}**

![](media/image3.png){width="5.791666666666667in" height="4.125in"}

**[July 17, 2012 at]{.smallcaps}** **[7:56:54 AM]{.smallcaps}**

**[Copyright © 2010 Cornell University]{.smallcaps}**

Table of Contents

[Disclaimer 4](#disclaimer)

[Permission and Licensing Information
4](#permission-and-licensing-information)

[Introduction to AguaClara 5](#introduction-to-aguaclara)

[The sustainable approach 5](#the-sustainable-approach)

[The treatment process 6](#the-treatment-process)

[The AguaClara Design Tool 7](#the-aguaclara-design-tool)

[Design Parameters 8](#design-parameters)

[Plant Components 9](#plant-components)

[Entrance tank/preliminary sedimentation
9](#entrance-tankpreliminary-sedimentation)

[Linear flow orifice meter (LFOM) 11](#linear-flow-orifice-meter-lfom)

[Chemical dose controller (CDC) 12](#chemical-dose-controller-cdc)

[Chemical storage tanks 16](#chemical-storage-tanks)

[Rapid Mix 18](#rapid-mix)

[Flocculation 19](#flocculation)

[General Flocculator Design 20](#general-flocculator-design)

[Inlet Channel 20](#_Toc326145230)

[Sedimentation Tanks 21](#sedimentation-tanks)

[Assigning dimensions to the sedimentation tank
22](#assigning-dimensions-to-the-sedimentation-tank)

[Inlet Manifolds 23](#inlet-manifolds)

[Sludge drain 25](#sludge-drain)

[Tolvas 25](#tolvas)

[Plate settlers 25](#plate-settlers)

[Launders 26](#launders)

[Canal de salida 27](#canal-de-salida)

[Chlorine Disinfection 27](#chlorine-disinfection)

[Manejo de lodos 29](#manejo-de-lodos)

[Stacked Rapid Sand Filtration: SRSF
29](#stacked-rapid-sand-filtration-srsf)

[Materials List 32](#materials-list)

[Entrance Tank 32](#entrance-tank)

[Flocculation Tank 32](#flocculation-tank)

[Sedimentation Tank 32](#sedimentation-tank-1)

[SRSF 32](#srsf)

+-----------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
| ![Description:                    | ![Description:                    |
| cee\_3line\_b\_4c\_pc\_\[Converte | https://confluence.cornell.edu/do |
| d\]](media/image1.wmf){width="2.8 | wnload/attachments/10420888/aguac |
| 333333333333335in"                | lara\_new\_logo.jpg](media/image4 |
| height="0.6666666666666666in"}    | .jpeg){width="2.0729166666666665i |
|                                   | n"                                |
|                                   | height="0.5520833333333334in"}    |
|                                   |                                   |
|                                   | <http://aguaclara.cee.cornell.edu |
|                                   | />                                |
|                                   |                                   |
|                                   | Dr. Monroe Weber-Shirk, Director  |
+-----------------------------------+-----------------------------------+

This preliminary design was requested by UI.Name.First UI.Name.Last on
behalf of UI.Organization. The design was created on July 17, 2012 at
7:56:54 AM by the AguaClara Design Server at Cornell University. The
design is for UI.City UI.State, UI.Country and has a design flow rate of
Q.Plant. The design was created with MathCAD code version SVN.Version.

This design is the result of over 20,000 hours of undergraduate,
graduate, and faculty labor. The design incorporates advanced fluid
dynamics analysis for the hydraulic design to minimize floc breakup
between the flocculator and the sedimentation tank. The chemical feed
system is based on a series of inventions by the AguaClara team that
make it possible to directly set the desired chemical dose and to
maintain that dose automatically even as the flow rate through the plant
varies. The high rate, shallow sedimentation tank design is optimized
for high performance, low cost of construction, and ease of maintenance.
The fabrication techniques that make it possible for a single operator
to completely disassemble a sedimentation tank while keeping the rest of
the plant in operation were developed by the AguaClara team at Cornell
and by our partners in Honduras.

The economic value of this design is approximately 10,000 USD. This
estimate is based on the amount of time that would be required to create
this design if an environmental engineering firm used the AguaClara
design algorithms, but not the automated design tool, to create this
design. The AguaClara team is committed to continue providing this
design service because we want to encourage new implementation partners
to explore the use of this technology. We also recognize that high
design costs would prevent this technology from being available to small
communities. However, we do require funding to maintain our design team
and to continue to integrate improvements into our designs. We recommend
that implementation partners include a design fee for the AguaClara
design service in the project budget. The nominal fee (far below its
true value) for use of this design service is 1000 USD per L/s of plant
capacity. You are welcome to create multiple designs for each facility
that you intend to construct to obtain an optimal plant configuration.
This fee, which will guarantee continued technical support from the
AguaClara team, can be paid to AguaClara by check or [online to Cornell
University](http://sites.google.com/site/cuaguaclara/donate). This fee
will likely be between 1% and 2% of the overall project cost for a water
treatment plant. Thank you for your support.

##### Donate by Check

Make the check to Cornell University

Write AguaClara in the memo field

Mail to: AguaClara, 220 Hollister Hall, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY
14853    

Disclaimer
==========

This document is a DRAFT. It has not been reviewed for official release.
It is included with the design files to show what we plan to deliver in
the near future.

This design, including the files accompanying this document, is only a
draft and must be reviewed and approved by a licensed engineer prior to
construction. If you have questions about this design please contact the
AguaClara design team at Cornell University at <CUAguaClara@gmail.com>.

### Permission and Licensing Information

Copyright © 2010 Cornell University

Authors: The AguaClara team at Cornell University under the supervision
of Dr. Monroe Weber-Shirk

This design was created using the open source engineering services of
the AguaClara program at Cornell University. It is subject to the
[Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike
3.0](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/us/legalcode) United
States license. If you alter, transform, or build upon this work, you
may distribute the resulting work only under the same, similar or a
compatible license.

Permission to use this AguaClara Design Tool along with the subsequent
AutoCAD renderings and supporting files for design specifications
provided by Cornell based on your input parameters (collectively
\"WORK\") and their associated copyrights without a written agreement is
hereby granted. Any water treatment plants built using this WORK shall
be designed and supervised by a licensed civil engineer.

IN NO EVENT SHALL CCTEC, CORNELL UNIVERSITY, OR THEIR EMPLOYEES BE
LIABLE TO ANY PARTY FOR DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, OR
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, INCLUDING LOST PROFITS, ARISING OUT OF THE USE OF
WORK AND ITS ASSOCIATED COPYRIGHTS, EVEN IF CCTEC OR CORNELL MAY HAVE
BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

THE WORK PROVIDED HEREIN IS ON AN \"AS IS\" BASIS, AND CCTEC, CORNELL,
AND THEIR EMPLOYEES HAVE NO OBLIGATION TO PROVIDE MAINTENANCE, SUPPORT,
UPDATES, ENHANCEMENTS, OR MODIFICATIONS. CCTEC, CORNELL, AND THEIR
EMPLOYEES MAKE NO REPRESENTATIONS AND EXTEND NO WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND,
EITHER IMPLIED OR EXPRESSED, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, OR
THAT THE USE OF WORK AND ITS ASSOCIATED COPYRIGHTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ANY
PATENT, TRADEMARK OR OTHER RIGHTS.

Users of WORK shall indemnify, hold harmless and defend Cornell, its
officers, employees, agents, and the sponsors of the research that let
to WORK against any and all claims, suits, losses, damage, costs, fees,
and expenses resulting from or arising out of use of WORK. This
indemnification shall include, but not be limited to, any product
liability. Users of WORK, at their sole cost and expense, shall
sufficiently insure their activities in connection with the WORK and
obtain, keep in force, and maintain insurance or an equivalent program
of self insurance. Cornell shall notify users of WORK in writing of any
claim or suit brought against Cornell in respect of which Cornell
intends to invoke the provisions of this paragraph. Users of WORK shall
keep Cornell informed on a current basis of its defense of any claims
under this paragraph.

Introduction to AguaClara
=========================

The sustainable approach
------------------------

AguaClara is a program in Civil and Environmental Engineering at Cornell
University that is improving drinking water quality through innovative
research, knowledge transfer, open-source engineering, and replicable
design of sustainable municipal water treatment systems.

The team is directed by Monroe Weber-Shirk and has worked in partnership
with Agua Para el Pueblo, a Honduran NGO specializing in water supply
systems, to implement the technologies in rural towns. The AguaClara
program received the 2011 Intel Environment Tech Award in recognition of
the success of the program in developing sustainable technologies and
effective governance models.

Cornell-designed AguaClara municipal water treatment plants are
providing six Honduran towns with populations between 1,500 and 15,000
with safe drinking water from their taps. The AguaClara plants produce
safe drinking water with turnkey design, construction, operation,
training, and transfer costs of \$20 to \$30 per person served and
incremental operating costs of \$2-\$4 per person per year.

The AguaClara technology is uniquely capable of producing high quality
drinking water from turbid surface waters without using electricity. The
facilities use gravity powered chemical dosing, hydraulic flocculation
(to form large aggregates from the contaminants, or flocs), high-rate
sedimentation using custom-fabricated plate settlers (to remove the
flocs), stacked rapid sand filtration, and disinfection using liquid
chlorine (to kill any residual pathogens that escaped the previous
treatment steps). The designs rely on materials that are sourced in the
community and national supply chains. The municipal water treatment
plants are designed to be easy and economical to operate.

Extending safe drinking water coverage to resource poor communities
requires multiple engineering innovations and a new approach to
implementation and governance. Our robust technologies do not require
electricity or external power sources. Our governance model is based on
community ownership, community-based democratic governance, and
technologies that are specifically designed to be easy to operate and to
encourage pride in ownership. We build implementation partner capacity
and intend to encourage the formation of a network of implementation
partners that will share best practices for implementation and long-term
operation of community-based water treatment facilities.

This integrated model of technology development for compatibility with a
sustainable governance model has proven extremely successful. All
AguaClara facilities are owned and operated by their respective
communities and all facilities continue to provide safe drinking water.
This is particularly noteworthy in Honduras where most water treatment
plants for large cities do not reliably meet drinking water standards.
Several towns with AguaClara facilities are experiencing reverse
migration from Tegucigalpa due to their superior water.

Democratic community governance through an elected water board has
proven to be very effective and the water boards use the water tariffs
(that the community has voted to increase) to fund improvements to their
water supply infrastructure. Water boards with AguaClara facilities have
invested in reforestation of their watershed, upgrades to their
distribution system, extensions to their distribution system to add new
customers, and ongoing maintenance of the water supply infrastructure.
Customer willingness to pay for safe drinking water is significantly
higher than their willingness to pay for unsafe river water and the
difference is greater than the increased operation and maintenance cost
of providing safe drinking water using AguaClara technologies.

Our goal is to disseminate this technology and our learning regarding
sustainable governance globally. The AguaClara engineering designs are
shared online to facilitate technology dissemination and to reduce
design costs. National engineering firms (non-profit, private, or
governmental) are trained to build the water treatment facilities using
locally available materials and community labor. Our partners work with
locally-trusted organizations to develop a governance model that is
suited to the natural resources, national governance framework and
available social and human capital of a particular community.

We are seeking funding that will support our research and development
work to extend the range of community sizes that can be served using the
AguaClara technologies. We have experience with communities between
1,500 and 15,000 and plan to extend that range in both directions. We
are researching several technologies that have the potential to reduce
the construction and operating costs of the water treatment plants and
need funding to support that effort. There are significant engineering
and governance challenges as we develop approaches to community based
water treatment for communities with fewer than 1,500 inhabitants.
Extending our design capabilities for treatment facilities that can
serve larger cities is easier. The engineering and technical challenges
will require developing new fabrication methods, testing prototypes for
performance, and coding the new designs for dissemination via our online
design tool.

We are also interested in testing models for implementation and
governance. Our experience suggests that partnerships between the
AguaClara team at Cornell, implementation partners, and community
governance bodies realize their full potential when there is a high
level of trust between the organizations and an ongoing technical
assistance circuit rider. The AguaClara technologies are designed to
encourage the creation of trust and self sufficiency by being easy to
understand and easy to maintain even in resource poor communities. We
would benefit from experiences with different types of implementation
partners and with more governance and technical assistance models to
learn which approaches are most effective for various situations.

The AguaClara program overcomes the major barriers to safe drinking
water that were previously encountered by small communities. We estimate
that well over 100 million people living in Latin America and the
Caribbean, Africa, and Asia could benefit from these technologies. The
resilient design, innovative fabrication methods based on locally
available materials, the automated design tool, and community based
governance hold the prospect of improving the quality of life in
thousands of communities in the coming years.

The treatment process
---------------------

AguaClara plants treat turbidity, pathogens, and natural organic matter
using rapid mix, coagulation/flocculation, sedimentation, and rapid sand
filtration proceses. The treatment process begins with removal of large
debris and preliminary sedimentation of large particles. Then coagulant,
which promotes the aggregation of suspended particles, is added to the
raw water through a semi-automatic chemical dosing system. The coagulant
is mixed with water in a rapid-mix pipe, which delivers macro-scale
mixing through minor losses due to pipe configuration, and micro-scale
mixing through an orifice plate. The rapid-mix pipe carries the mix of
water and chemical coagulant to the flocculation tank, where it is
forced through a series of 180 degree turns created by the staggered
baffles within. The 180 degree turns ensure sufficient collisions among
the suspended particulates to form larger aggregate particles, or flocs.

The flocculated water is then delivered to the bottom of the
sedimentation tank through a series of diffusers, which ensure that the
flow is directed vertically into the tank. The bottom geometry of the
sedimentation tank has been designed to suspend flocs in the middle
portion of the tank, creating a floc blanket which itself acts as a
filter for other flocs. The top of the tank has a several closely-spaced
plates, known as lamella, to shorten the horizontal distance a particle
must travel before encountering an obstruction and settling down to the
bottom of the tank. The water flowing up from the lamella has been
cleaned of most flocs and can then be carried to the stacked rapid sand
filter.

AguaClara's one-of-a-kind stacked rapid sand filter is composed of six
sand layers arranged one on top of the other. The water from the
sedimentation tank is divided evenly and delivered to every other sand
layer by a pipe network. The main pipelines are connected to a series of
slotted pipes, which spread the settled water throughout the plan view
area of each layer. As water travels through the sand layers, the
remaining flocs are captured in the pore space of the sand, and the
filtered water is collected by the receiving sand layers (the remaining
three layers that did not deliver water into the filter). A siphon
system and pipe stubs that vary the water outlet elevations enable the
filter to self-backwash, minimizing demand on the operator.

The final step in the AguaClara water treatment process is disinfection.
The semi-automatic chemical doser delivers chlorine to the filtered
water. The chlorinated water is stored in a distribution tank to allow
for sufficient contact time with the chemical, ensuring the water is
fully disinfected. After disinfection, the treated water is ready for
distribution to households. Water treated by the AguaClara system is
consistently below 5 nephelometric turbidity units (NTU), and frequently
meets the US standard for maximum turbidity, 0.3 NTU.

The AguaClara Design Tool
-------------------------

In the AguaClara Design Tool (ADT), the basic design parameters
requested (e.g. flow rate, wall thickness, number of sedimentation tanks
desired, the dimensions of purchased lamella material, etc.) are used as
variables in a series of hydraulic and geometric algorithms that define
the dimensions of the plant reactors and their accessories. The design
algorithms in the ADT are based on fundamental physics, and thus are
scalable over a wide flow range. Algorithms have been revised and
constrained based on lab research and feedback from the field to ensure
both efficient material usage and ease of operation. The software output
based on these parametric algorithms is a three-dimensional drawing in
AutoCAD of each reactor that is to be given to the designer. The
designer completes the design based on the ADT output by adding the
final treatment components, the plant building, and distribution system,
and then the designer must perform a full structural analysis of the
plant. This document provides a summary of AguaClara processes with
regard to the design of closed facilities. Consequently, all calculated
values (e.g. lengths of plant reactors, distances between the centers of
the orifices, etc.) are specific to this plant design, and do not
necessarily apply to other AguaClara plants.

Design Parameters
=================

Included is the design for a plant for **[UI.City]{.smallcaps}** having
a maximum flow rate of Q.Plant L/s. The design was created assuming
specific input parameters, shown in Table 1 below. The software uses
these parameters together with the requested flow rate as variables in a
series of hydraulic and geometric calculations that define the
dimensions of the various plant components. The goal of the plant with
respect to water quality is to reduce the turbidity as much as possible
and to have it meet international water quality standards (less than 5
NTU), maintain the color within norms (15 Unidades de Color -- UC),
disinfect the water with chlorine, and maintain a residual chlorine
concentration throughout distribution between 0.3 and 1.0 mg/L. The
plant treats water without using electricity, utilizing preliminary
sedimentation, flow control, rapid mix, coagulation/flocculation,
hydraulic upflow sedimentation, filtration, and chlorination.

  ***Maximum flow rate***                                                                         Q.Plant                   
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------- --------------------
  ***Geometric Assumptions***                                                                                               
  Thickness of the plant walls                                                                    T.PlantWall               
  Minimum concrete thickness                                                                      T.ConcreteMin             
  Minimum tank dimension for construction worker to fit inside                                    W.HumanMin                
  Minimum height from bottom of drain channel to top of walkway so that operator can fit inside   H.HumanAccess             
  Minimum width of a channel for constructability                                                 W.ChannelMin              
  Plant freeboard height                                                                          H.PlantFreeboard          
  *Entrance Tank*                                                                                                           
  Maximum hopper angle                                                                            AN.EtSlope                
  Maximum upflow velocity                                                                         V.EtUp                    
  Maximum water height for ease of operation                                                      HW.EtMax                  
  Thickness of the ledge between hoppers                                                          T.EtLedge                 
  *Chemical Dosing*                                                                                                         
  Turnover time for the chemical stock                                                            Ti.CoagStock              
  Height of the chemical tanks above the constant head tanks                                      H.CoagTankAboveHeadTank   
  Minor loss coefficient for small diameter tubing                                                K.CdcTube                 
                                                                                                  Coagulant                 Chlorine
  Maximum dose                                                                                    C.CoagDoseMax             C.ChlorineDoseMax
  Maximum stock concentration                                                                     C.CoagStockMax            C.ChlorineStockMax
  Maximum head loss through small-diameter tubing                                                 HL.CoagCdc                HL.ChlorCdc
  *Flocculation*                                                                                                            
  Minor loss coefficient for flow around a baffle                                                 K.FlocBaffle              
  Desired collision potential                                                                     CP.Floc                   
  Desired energy dissipation rate                                                                 ED.Floc                   
  Maximum time required to drain the tank                                                         Ti.FlocDrain              
  *Sedimentation*                                                                                                           
  Angle of side slopes                                                                            AN.SedSlope               
  Angle of plate settlers                                                                         AN.SedPlate               
  Angle of floc hopper slopes                                                                     AN.SedHopperSlope         
  Minimum spacing between plate settlers                                                          S.SedPlateMin             
  Upflow velocity                                                                                 V.SedUpBod                
  Capture velocity                                                                                V.SedCBod                 
  *Stacked Rapid Sand Filter*                                                                                               
  Wall thickness                                                                                  T.FiWall                  
  Backwash velocity                                                                               V.FiBw                    
  Number of sand layers                                                                           N.FiLayer                 
  Time required to drain backwash water above fluidized bed                                       T.FiBwInitiationBod       
                                                                                                                            
  *Material Dimensions*                                                                                                     
  Width of plate settler material                                                                 W.SedPlate                
  Length of plate settler material                                                                L.SedPlateSheet           
  Thickness of plate settler material                                                             T.SedPlate                

Table 1. Automated Design Tool assumptions used to calculate the
included design.

The treatment processes -- preliminary sedimentation, coagulation, flow
control, rapid mix, EN.FlocType hydraulic flocculation, hydraulic upflow
sedimentation, filtration, and chlorination -- have been designed
according to the maximum flow rate, Q.Plant L/s. While the resulting
dimensions and layout have been cost optimized wherever possible, the
user may choose to change some calculated values, such as those given in
Table 2, to alter the plan view area of the plant for specific site
requirements.

  Number of sedimentation tanks           N.SedTanks
  --------------------------------------- -------------
  Number of sedimentation bays per tank   N.SedBays
  Flocculator depth                       H.Floc
  Flocculator type                        EN.FlocType

Table 2. Calculated values for UI.City, UI.Country that may be altered
to produce optimized plan view areas for site-specific constraints.

Plant Components
================

Entrance tank/preliminary sedimentation
---------------------------------------

The main functions of the entrance tank are to remove solids from the
water through preliminary sedimentation, to measure the flow through the
plant, and to provide a place where the quality of the raw water can be
observed. The preliminary sedimentation process removes solids such as
sand, silt, and clay from the water before applying the coagulant to the
influent. Water enters the plant on the right side of the entrance tank
shown in Figure 1 and flows linearly over the top of the inverted
pyramidal traps, or hoppers, at the bottom of the tank. The first hopper
contains an overflow weir pipe to waste any water entering the plant in
excess of the plant flow rate. The overflow pipe has a nominal diameter
of ND.EtOverflowDrain, sized to handle half of the total plant flow
rate. A slot is cut from the pipe such that 10% of the vertical
dimension of the pipe is lost, giving a W.EtOverflowSlot wide opening,
starting at a height of H.EtOverflowCutaway below the natural inner
diameter of the pipe. The length of the slot is designed to fit along
the length of the first hopper, giving an effective weir length (two
times the slot length) of L.EtOverflowWeir. A drain is also embedded
into the first hopper, allowing the operator to manually adjust the
plant flow rate by opening the flow control valve by a desired amount,
wasting water into the channel below. The ND.EtFlowControl nominal
diameter drain is designed to handle the drain the full plant flow rate
if needed.

![](media/image5.png){width="6.53125in"
height="4.331944444444445in"}Large particulates settle out into the
hoppers, and collect near the drains at the bottom. When the water
reaches the end of the tank, it flows through the orifices of the riser
pipe, which acts as a linear flow orifice meter (LFOM). It is designed
for a capture velocity of W.EtCapture to remove these particulates. A
length of L.Et is assigned to the entrance tank to correspond to the
sedimentation tank length plus enough space to fit the float of the
chemical dose controller and the rapid mix pipes. The width, W.Et, is
then assigned to ensure the minimum desired capture velocity is met
while still allowing enough space for a person to fit inside and
construct the tank. The depth of the tank is then determined such that
the velocity in the upper rectangular portion of the tank does not
exceed the velocity in the flocculator, V.Floc, while ensuring the depth
is sufficiently small that the drains are easy to access. In this case,
the tank has a height of H.Et.

To allow for easy maintenance, N.EtHoppers hoppers must be built into
the entrance tank, at an angle of AN.EtSlope, forcing sediments to slide
to the bottom where the ND.EtDrain drains are located. When too much
sediment has accumulated, the upper drain pipes must be removed until
the sludge is flushed out. Directly below the entrance tank, there is a
drain channel to collect the waste.

As the raw water flows from the first hopper to the subsequent ones, it
must pass through two trash racks, preventing large debris from entering
the treatment process. Having two trash racks allows the plant to run
with a grit screen even while the operator cleans one of them. The trash
racks are made of rebar and slide into two slots built into the entrance
tank wall. The center-to-center distance between the rebar, B.EtRebar m,
is set to ensure that debris large enough to clog the orifices in the
linear flow orifice meter downstream (LFOM) are kept out.

Suspended particulates in the water settle out over the length of the
entrance tank into the hoppers below. When enough sludge has accumulated
at the bottom, the hopper stops can be removed to flush out the debris
down into the drain channel below, and they can then be replaced to
resume normal operation. The ND.EtDrain in nominal diameter hopper stop
is L.EtDrainStopper m long, ensuring the top of the pipe is above the
maximum water height in the tank. Table 3 summarizes the entrance tank
design specifications below.

  *Entrance Tank*                      
  ------------------------------------ --------------------
  Residence time                       
  Capture velocity                     
  Tank length                          L.Et
  Tank width                           W.Et
  Tank height                          H.Et
  Hopper length                        L.EtHopper
  Hopper height                        H.EtHopper
  Last slope height                    H.EtLastSlope
  Hopper side slope angle              AN.EtSlope
  Hopper back slope angle              
  Thickness of ledge between hoppers   T.EtHopperLedge
  Number of full hoppers               N.EtFullHopper
  *Hopper Drains*                      
  Hopper drain diameter                ND.EtDrain
  Hopper stop length                   L.EtDrainStopper
  *Flow Control Components*            
  Flow control valve diameter          ND.EtFlowControl
  Overflow weir pipe diameter          ND.EtOverflowDrain
  Overflow weir pipe slot length       
  Overflow weir slot depth             
  *Trash Rack*                         
  Trash rack rebar spacing             
  Trash rack rebar diameter            

Linear flow orifice meter (LFOM)
--------------------------------

The linear flow orifice meter, or LFOM, is the riser pipe found in the
leftmost hopper of the entrance tank. Water exits the entrance tank
through the orifices in the LFOM, is dosed with coagulant, undergoes
rapid mix, and then enters the flocculation tank. The diameter of the
pipe is set such that cross-sectional area of the pipe required is
Pi.LfomSafety times the minimum area required to carry the average
velocity of water in the pipe, giving a ND.RMPipe in nominal diameter
pipe. The additional area ensures that water free falls into the rapid
mix pipe so the flow in the pipe is hydraulically disconnected from the
flow through the entrance tank. The orifice pattern in the LFOM is
designed to approximate the shape of a sutro weir, which forces a linear
relationship between the flow rate over the weir and the head loss over
the weir. The maximum head loss over the weir is set to be
HL.Flowmeasure m, since the sutro weir approximation is not valid at
higher head losses. Assuming a B.LfomRows m spacing between the rows of
orifices, the theoretical flow area required in the top B.LfomRows m of
the LFOM can be calculated, and the orifice size is set to be no larger
than that to ensure at least one orifice can be placed in the top row.
This design requires D.LfomOrifices m diameter orifices. The number of
orifices in each row is calculated by minimizing the mean square error
as compared to perfectly linearized flow. Table 4 gives the orifice
pattern for this specific design.

  **Row Height (m)**   **Number of Orifices**
  -------------------- ------------------------
  H.LfomOrifice1       N.LfomOrifices1
  H.LfomOrifice2       N.LfomOrifices2
  H.LfomOrifice3       N.LfomOrifices3
  H.LfomOrifice4       N.LfomOrifices4
  H.LfomOrifice5       N.LfomOrifices5
  H.LfomOrifice6       N.LfomOrifices6
  H.LfomOrifice7       N.LfomOrifices7
  H.LfomOrifice8       N.LfomOrifices8
  H.LfomOrifice9       N.LfomOrifices9
  H.LfomOrifice10      N.LfomOrifices10

Chemical dose controller (CDC)
------------------------------

![](media/image7.png){width="4.740277777777778in"
height="4.061805555555556in"} The chemical dose controller is
hydraulically connected to the entrance tank, enabling the control
system to automatically adjust the flow of chemical solution through the
plant to maintain the desired dose at even varying flow rates. As
pictured in Figure 2, a ND.EtFloat diameter pipe float hangs from the
dosing lever arm and sits in the last hopper of the entrance tank. The
left side of the lever arm is marked with a dosing scale and has a drop
tube attached to a slider. The operator moves the slider along the left
side of the arm to set the desired dose. The chemical is administered to
the drop tube from the constant head tanks using a flexible tube, and
the constant head tank is fed through a tube connected to the stock
tanks. The flow of chemical from the stock tanks is controlled using a
float valve, which maintains the desired fluid reference level in the
constant head tanks.

![](media/image9.png){width="4.0125in" height="4.59375in"} When there is
no flow through the plant, as shown in Figure 3, the dosing arm is
level, and there is no head to drive the flow of chemical. When water is
flowing through the plant, the float rises along with the water level in
the tank, dropping the dosing point below the elevation of the fluid
level in the constant head tank, and thus providing a driving head for
chemical flow. This situation is pictured in Figure 4. To decrease the
chemical dose, the operator needs to move the slider to the desired dose
marked on the scale of the level arm. With the slider moved further to
the right, the dosing point elevation does not decrease as much as the
float rises, and so the driving head -- and thus the chemical flow --
decreases. This situation is pictured in Figure 5.

![](media/image11.png){width="3.11875in" height="3.967361111111111in"}
Recall that the water height in the entrance tank changes linearly with
the flow rate going through the plant due to the LFOM. Similarly, the
flow of chemical stock solution is linearly related to the elevation
difference between the fluid level in the constant head tanks and the
dosing point. The linear relationship between the driving head of the
chemical and the chemical flow rate is established by designing the
dosing tubes such that the head loss is dominated by major (shear)
losses. The lengths of the dosing tubes are limited by the need to have
the tubes drape without hitting the floor. The tubes must hang freely
and have space for a weight to keep the tube as straight as possible,
minimizing additional losses that would cause errors in the flow
calculation. Moreover, the tubes cannot be too short, or else the number
of tubes required to supply the needed flow gets high, and the apparatus
gets complicated. To determine the best combination of lengths and
numbers of tubes, we need to first determine the possible flow rates
available from purchasable tubing diameters. Allowing no more than a
Π~LinearCdcError~ = 10% deviation from the desired linear flow
relationship due to minor losses, the flow rate, Q~Available~, through
each available tube size is calculated as given in Eq 1 below.

Eq 1.

![](media/image13.png){width="3.2118055555555554in"
height="4.597916666666666in"}The diameter of the tube is D, the maximum
headloss through the dosing system is HL~Cdc~, g is the gravitation
constant, and K~CdcTube~ = K.CdcTube is the minor loss coefficient for
the tube.

Modifying the Hagen-Poiseuille equation for the length of a tube, given
major head loss h~f~, tube diameter, fluid viscosity ν, and fluid flow
rate (Eq 2), the required length L~CdcTube~ of each tube to obtain the
desired head loss at maximum flow may then be calculated for each
available flow rate (Eq 4).

Eq 2.

Eq 3.

Eq 4.

When the length of the tube is being calculated, the true viscosity of
the fluid is unknown, and so the viscosity of the maximum stock solution
is assumed for the case of the coagulant. The viscosity of chlorine is
assumed to be that of water since the solution must be sufficiently
dilute to produce simple designs.

Once all possible lengths for each diameter have been calculated, the
algorithm chooses the longest tube and associated diameter that is
smaller than the maximum length to ensure draping. This decision
minimizes the number of tubes, keeping the doser as simple as possible.
At this point, the number of dosing tubes N~CdcTubes~ assuming the
maximum chemical stock concentration C~ChemStockMax~ can be calculated
as follows in Eq 5:

Eq 5.

where Q~Plant~ is the maximum plant flow rate, C~MaxDose~ is the maximum
allowable dose, and Q~Tube~ is the flow rate through the design tube.

Finally, the required chemical stock concentration can be specified
based on the calculation in Eq 6.

Eq 6.

In the event that the required tube length is not long enough to reach
from the constant head tank to the drop tube, the small-diameter design
tube may be linked to a larger diameter tube just long enough to reach
the dosing point. If a large diameter tube is required for a particular
chemical, its length is indicated in Table 5, along with the complete
specifications for the chemical dosers.

  **Chemical Dose Controller Specifications**                                                                                                                                              
  --------------------------------------------- -------------------------------- --------------------- -------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------- -----------------------
  Coagulant Type                                EN.Coag                                                                                                                                    
  Float diameter                                ND.EtFloat                                                                                                                                 
  Float height                                  L.EtFloat                                                                                                                                  
  Lever arm length                                                                                                                                                                         
                                                *Chemical stock concentration*   *Maximum head loss*   *Float valve orifice diameter*   *Stock tank to constant head tank tube diameter*   *Large tube diameter*
  *Main plant coagulant*                        C.CoagStock                      HL.CoagCdc                                                                                                
  *Chlorine*                                    C.ChlorStock                     HL.ChlorCdc                                                                                               
  *Filter coagulant*                            C.FiCoagStock                    HL.FiCoagCdc                                                                                              
  *Chemical Dose Controller Tube Design*                                                                                                                                                   
                                                *Number of Tubes*                *Length of Tube*      *Diameter of Tube*                                                                  
  *Main Plant Coagulant*                        N.CoagCdcTubes                   L.CoagCdcTube         D.CoagCdcTube                                                                       
  *Chlorine*                                    N.ChlorCdcTubes                  L.ChlorCdcTube        D.ChlorCdcTube                                                                      
  *Filter Coagulant*                            N.FiCoagCdcTubes                 L.FiCoagCdcTube       D.FiCoagCdcTube                                                                     

Table 5. Chemical dose controller design for UI.City.

For the doser to function optimally, it is crucial for each component to
be installed correctly. To properly calibrate the doser once it has been
mounted to the entrance tank, the no flow situation needs to be
simulated in the entrance tank (Figure 3) by draining the tank until its
water level is just below the bottom of the LFOM's bottommost row of
orifices. Then, with the lever arm perfectly horizontal, adjust the
length of the rope attached to the float so that the float sits exactly
vertically. With the lever arm in the horizontal position, mount the
constant head tank such that its fluid level is at the same elevation as
the dosing point. Then, fill the entrance tank until the water height
corresponds to the maximum flow rate (where the topmost orifices of the
LFOM are just submerged, as in Figure 4). The elevation of the maximum
dose point on the scale should have decreased by the maximum allowable
head loss for the chemical. Position the slider to an intermediate dose.
(It is important to calibrate the doser at an intermediate dose -- as in
Figure 5 -- because this method leaves extreme flow rates less
susceptible to calibration errors.) At the intermediate dosing position,
measure the flow of chemical through the dosing tube and compare it to
the theoretical flow rate, which can be calculated by rearranging Eq 2
as follows:

Eq .

where h~f~ is given by the elevation difference between the dosing point
and the fluid level in the constant head tank. If the flow rate is
greater than the theoretical, cut the tube and repeat the test until the
theoretical value matches the measured value. If the flow rate is less
than the theoretical, a longer tube must be obtained and the calibration
must begin again from the first step. Once the theoretical and measured
values match, the doser is ready for use.

In addition to good calibration, the doser must be periodically cleaned
for good performance. Any sediment that may be clogging the valves or
fittings must be cleaned out to prevent underdosing. Additionally, air
bubbles in the tubes will cause dosing errors. If bubbles are present,
remove the tube from the dosing system and force the bubbles out.

Chemical storage tanks
----------------------

![](media/image20.png){width="4.302083333333333in"
height="3.3645833333333335in"}There are two to four storage tanks for
each chemical on the stock tank platform -- two for the main plant
coagulant, two for chlorine disinfection, and optionally two for
coagulant dosing before filtration, as shown in Figure 6. The stock
tanks are set at an elevation of Z.CoagTank to provide enough head to
overcome minor losses in the system, ensuring the desired flow rate can
be attained. The design of the chemical storage tanks is based on the
tank volumes available for purchase through Rotoplast for Latin America,
and it is assumed that the stock tank will be refilled no more
frequently than once every Ti.StockMin. In order to determine the
required volume of a chemical tank, the maximum chemical flow rate,
Q~ChemStockMax~, must first be determined as follows:

Eq 8

where C~ChemDoseMax~ is the maximum allowable chemical dose, and
C~ChemStock~ is the stock concentration in the chemical tank. Using the
maximum chemical flow rate, the volume of the stock tank, Vol~ChemTank~,
is computed using the following formula:

Eq 9

For plants that require stock tank volumes slightly larger than the
nearest available tank volume, the ADT automatically rounds down to the
nearest desired volume to make the size as small as possible.
Specifications for this particular stock tank design are given in Table
6 below.

  Dose and drain plumbing size                      ND.CoagPiping
  ------------------------------------------------- -------------------------
  Coagulant tank volume                             Vol.CoagTank
  Chlorine tank volume                              Vol.ChlorineTank
  Filter coagulant tank volume                      Vol.FiCoagTank
  Height of stock tanks above constant head tanks   H.CoagTankAboveHeadTank

Table 6. Chemical storage tank design for UI.City.

![](media/image23.png){width="6.635416666666667in"
height="5.245833333333334in"} All of the piping required to administer
the dose and drain the stock tanks (Figure 7) uses a nominal diameter of
ND.CoagPiping. The piping that connects to the constant head tanks begin
at a bulkhead fitting set at an elevation of B.StockOutlet higher than
the bottom of the stock tanks to prevent sediment from entering the
pipes. The flow is controlled at the top of the stock tank platform
using a ball valve, and the plumbing continues down through the
platform, and out through the wall facing the entrance tank at the
approximate elevation of the constant head tanks. The stock tank drains
are connected from the bottom center of the tanks, starting with a male
insert, and continuing under the platform and exiting via ball valve at
the edge of the main plant drain channel. Figure 8 shows more close up
details of the dosing and chemical drain plumbing.

Rapid Mix
---------

Once it has been dosed with coagulant, the water passes through the
rapid mix system. Rapid mix serves to uniformly distribute the coagulant
through the raw water. In this plant, the rapid mix occurs as turbulent
flow through a L.RMPipe long pipe, with an inner diameter of ND.RMPipe.
This pipe brings water from the point at which coagulant is dosed to the
entrance of the flocculator.

Flocculation 
-------------

  Velocity Gradient                 G.Floc
  --------------------------------- ------------
  Collision Potential               CP.Floc
  Maximum Energy Dissipation Rate   ED.FlocMax
  Average Energy Dissipation Rate   ED.FlocAve
  Residence Time                    Ti.Floc

The purpose of flocculation is to agitate the coagulated water, so that
the newly-neutralized suspended particles collide together to form
larger particulates, or flocs. Collisions are encouraged by forcing the
water to make several 180 degree turns around staggered baffles secured
in the channels of the tank. The flocculator is designed for a collision
potential of CP.Floc, and a maximum energy dissipation rate of ED.Floc.
The collision potential characterizes the probability of flocs colliding
and sticking together, which the energy dissipation rate characterizes
the likelihood of flocs breaking up. The flocculator encourages the
particulates in the water, now neutralized with coagulant, to collide
and stick together. As these particulates, or flocs, collide and stick
together, they grow heavy enough to settle out by the time they reach
the sedimentation tank. Since the particles collide more easily in
turbulent flow, turbulence is created by a series of staggered baffles
that force the water to make 180 degree turns. The baffles are spread
throughout several consecutive channels to maintain a compact design and
minimize cost of construction by sharing channel walls. To allow the two
tanks to share a wall, the flocculator length is set to that of the
sedimentation tank, L.Sed. There are a total of N.FlocChannels channels
in the flocculator, each channel having an inner width (excluding wall
thickness) of W.FlocChannel.

The flocs need to collide enough times that they grow large enough to
settle out in the sedimentation tank, but not so large that they settle
out in the flocculator. The required collision potential (the
possibility of colliding in the flocculator) is CP.Floc, while the
actual collision potential is CP.FlocTotal. Note that the value of the
actual collision potential may be significantly higher than the required
since the number of floc channels must be an integer.

The height of the flocculator was calculated by summing the head losses
within the flocculator, the water height in the sedimentation tank, and
a freeboard height of H.PlantFreeboard, giving a total height of H.Floc
(excluding floor thickness). The total width (perpendicular to the
channels) of the flocculator, including all walls except for the one
shared with the sedimentation tank, is W.FlocWithWalls. The total length
of the floc tank, including wall thickness, is L.FlocWithWalls. The
floor of the flocculator, above the floor thickness, is elevated
Z.FlocTank from the sedimentation tank floor, also above the floor
thickness. These dimensions together give a residence time in the
flocculator of Ti.Floc. The average velocity in the flocculator is
V.Floc.

![](media/image30.png){width="4.125in" height="3.5416666666666665in"}

Figure 11: Top view of a vertical flocculator

  Length                               L.Sed                            
  ------------------------------------ -------------------------------- -------------------------------
  Width                                W.Floc                           
  Channel Width                        W.FlocChannel                    
  Port Height                          H.FlocPort                       
  Port Width                           W.FlocPort                       
  *Baffle Module Design*                                                
  Baffle Material                                                       
  Thickness of Baffles                 T.FlocBaffle                     
  Module Pipe Size                     ND.FlocModulesMain               
  Module Spacer Size                   ND.SpacerPipe                    
  Oversized Cap Size                   ND.FlocModulesLarge              
                                       *First Channels*                 *Last Channels*
  Number of Baffles in a channel       N.FlocChannelBafflesFirst        N.FlocChannelBafflesLast
  Spacing between baffles              S.FlocBaffleFirst                S.FlocBaffleLast
  Number of Long Modules               N.FlocChannelModulesLongFirst    N.FlocChannelModulesLongLast
  Number of Baffles per Long Module    N.FlocChannelBafflesLongFirst    N.FlocChannelBafflesLongLast
  Number of Baffles per Short Module   N.FlocChannelBafflesShortFirst   N.FlocChannelBafflesShortLast
  Length of outer pipes                L.FlocModuleLongOuterFirst       L.FlocModuleLongOuterLast
  Length of middle pipes               L.FlocModuleLongFirst            L.FlocModuleLongLast
  Length of outer spacers                                               
  Length of middle spacers                                              

### General Flocculator Design

Gate valves at the bottom of alternate channels in the flocculator allow
for draining. The nominal diameter of the flocculator drain pipes is
ND.FlocValve, calculated to ensure the tank can drain in less than
Ti.FlocDrain. Since each valve is draining the water from at least two
channels, this design requires N.FlocValves valves. Elbows connected at
the end of the drain piping redirect the flow of water into the drain
channel, minimizing splashing.

Since the center of the valve is aligned with the floor (above the floor
thickness), slopes need to be built in to allow efficient draining. The
width of the slope is the inner diameter of the drain piping, while the
depth of it is the inner radius. The length is given to make the slope
30 degrees. In the even that a 30 degree slope causes a slope longer
than the space between baffles, the end of the slope is simply set to 5
cm away from the nearest baffle.

  Number of Drains         N.FlocValves
  ------------------------ --------------
  Drain Diameter           ND.FlocValve
  Slope Height             H.FlocSlope
  Slope Width              
  Flocculator Drain Time   Ti.FlocDrain

#### Sedimentation Tank

  Number of Tanks           N.SedTanks
  ------------------------- ------------
  Height                    H.Sed
  Length                    L.Sed
  Width                     W.Sed
  Number of Bays per Tank   N.SedBays
  Width of a Bay            W.SedBay

  Capture Velocity   V.SedCBod
  ------------------ -----------
  Upflow Velocity    V.SedUp
  Residence Time     Ti.Sed

The influent to the sedimentation tank passes through a channel that
distributes the water to the individual bays within each tank. This
channel is designed to ensure that the flocs can be transferred to the
bottom of the sedimentation tanks without being broken. Other
restrictions on the dimensions include: sufficient width to accommodate
the inlet manifolds that deliver water to the bottom of tank, tiene que
tener suficiente profundidad para apoyar los tubos recolectores de
salida de los tanques de sedimentación, tiene que ser poco profundo para
permitir fácil acceso al fondo, y tiene W.SedInletchannelPreweir de
espacio libre.

  Length         L.Channel
  -------------- -----------------
  Width          W.InletChannel
  Height         H.InletChannel
  Water height   HW.InletChannel

####### Table 7. Dimensions of the inlet channel

El canal distribuidor también tiene un vertedero de H.SedWeirInlet de
altura sobre el nivel del fondo y un tubo de 4 pulgadas de diámetro
fundido en el final del canal. Este tubo se mantiene tapado excepto
cuando se quiere botar agua floculada al canal de limpieza para que no
ingrese a los tanques de sedimentación. Cuando se desborda agua del
canal, el vertedero mantiene el canal y el tanque de floculación llenos
de agua para evitar cambios abruptos en el nivel de agua que pueden
perjudicar el tratamiento.

####### 

  Type of weir   Perpendicular
  -------------- -----------------
  Length         W.SedWeirInlet
  Height         H.SedWeirInlet
  Head loss      HL.SedWeirInlet

Table 8. Dimensions of the inlet channel weir

#### Sedimentation Tanks

The objective of the sedimentation tanks is to remove, by gravity, the
flocs that have been formed in the flocculator. Los tanques de
sedimentación de flujo ascendente tienen cinco partes: los tubos
distribuidores, los canales de drenaje, las tolvas, las placas
sedimentadoras, y los tubos recolectores del agua decantada.

![](media/image31.png){width="4.604166666666667in"
height="5.822916666666667in"}

Figure 12:Top view of the sedimentation tank

### Assigning dimensions to the sedimentation tank

Se dimensionan los tanques de sedimentación en base a los criterios de
diseño de las varias partes descritas anteriormente así como las
dimensiones estándares del material de las láminas usadas para las
placas sedimentadoras. Láminas de policarbonato, un buen material para
placas sedimentadoras por su resistencia y lisura, son comerciales en
dimensiones de 3.66 de largo por 1.08 m de ancho por 0.02 m de espesor.
Para hacer el uso más eficiente de este material, el algoritmo de
dimensionamiento de los tanques de sedimentación de la herramienta de
diseño de AguaClara fija el ancho de cada tanque al ancho de la lámina,
en 1.08 m, y usa un algoritmo de optimización para escoger un solo largo
de todas las placas de tal manera que el diseño requiere la compra de un
mínimo número de láminas. Utilizando este constante además de los
constantes V~ascendente~, V~c~, α, el ángulo de inclinación de las
tolvas, el número de tanques de sedimentación deseados, y el caudal
máximo de la planta, se calculan las dimensiones de los tanques de
sedimentación.

####### 

  Number of sedimentation tanks                         N.SedTanks
  ----------------------------------------------------- -----------------
  Number of sedimentation bays per sedimentation tank   N.SedBays
  Width of each bay                                     W.SedBay
  Length of each bay and tank                           L.Sed
  Altura de las paredes inclinadas                      H.SedBayDivider
  Ancho de las paredes inclinadas                       W.SedSlope
  Angulo de inclinación de las paredes                  AN.SedSlope

Table 9. Dimensions of the sedimentation tank

![](media/image32.png){width="4.9375in" height="3.1875in"}

Figure 13: Cámaras sedimentadoras y tolvas del tanque de sedimentación

### Inlet Manifolds

The objective of the inlet manifolds is to transport the flocs into the
bottom of the sedimentation tank without breaking them. El diseño de los
tubos distribuidores también depende del factor de la tasa de disipación
de energía máxima, ε~max~, la idea siempre siendo pasar los flóculos
formados a los tanques de sedimentación sin romperlos por demasiada
turbulencia. Se determina el diámetro de los tubos de entrada fijando
ε~max~ = 6 mW/kg en el lugar donde hay el mayor potencial de romper
flóculos: la entrada a los tubos en el fondo del canal distribuidor.

![](media/image33.png){width="2.7395833333333335in"
height="3.2291666666666665in"}

Figure 14: Tuberías del tanque de sedimentación

Each one of the N.SedBays bays in each sedimentation tank has a maximum
flow rate of Q.SedBay, which, according to this equation, requires a
ND.SedManifold inlet manifold pipe to prevent floc breakup. The length
of each inlet manifold pipe is L.SedManifoldPipe, and the pipes have an
elevation of Z.SedManifoldLift from the sedimentation tank floor.

The inlet manifolds distribute water along the length of the
sedimentation tank through orifices along the bottom of the pipe. The
total cross-sectional area of the jets coming out of the manifold must
equal the approximate inner diameter of the pipe itself, given by the
maximum energy dissipation constraint. La suma de las áreas de los
chorros de estos agujeros tiene que ser aproximadamente igual al
diámetro del tubo para preservar la tasa de disipación de energía máxima
que se toma como criterio para dimensionar el tubo, tomando en cuenta
las restricciones de tamaños estándares de brocas para perforar los
agujeros. Cada tubo distribuidor tiene N.SedManifolPorts de
D.SedManifoldPort de diámetro espaciados a S.SedManifoldBetween centro a
centro a lo largo del tubo.

Adjuntos a los agujeros, y en posición perpendicular al tubo de
distribución, se encuentran tubitos de longitud L.Diffuser y diámetro
D.Diffuser. El propósito de estos tubos verticales es evitar la creación
de corrientes circulares en el fondo del tanque de sedimentación y la
creación de zonas muertas, donde los sedimentos pueden ser acumulados.

####### 

  Nominal diameter                                      ND.SedManifold
  ----------------------------------------------------- ----------------------
  Diameter of the orifices                              D.SedManifoldPort
  Number of orifices                                    N.SedManifoldPorts
  Center-to-center distance between orifices            B.SedManifoldPort
  Length                                                L.SedManifoldPipe
  Elevation from the sed tank floor                     Z.SedManifold
  Espacio entre el centro de la tubería y la cubierta   S.SedManifoldBetween

Table 10. Dimensions of the inlet manifold

### Sludge drain

El en fondo de cada tanque de sedimentación hay un canal de drenaje para
purgar los lodos acumulados en el proceso de sedimentación. El canal es
un hueco de W.SedSludge ancho por H.SedSludge de alto que recorre todo
el largo del fondo del tanque. En un lado del tanque, el canal da a una
válvula de bronce de D.SedSludgeValve de diámetro que controla el nivel
de lodo en el tanque. Encima del canal de cada tanque se colocan placas
de ferrocemento perforados con N.SedsludgeOrifices de D.SedsludgeOrifice
espaciados a B.SedSludgeOrifices de centro a centro. Estos agujeros
están distribuidos uniformemente a lo largo del canal para lograr purgar
los lodos de todas las partes del tanque uniformemente. Los diámetros de
los agujeros en el canal y el diámetro de la válvula están diseñados
para vaciar un tanque en Ti.SedDrain .

####### 

  Width                                                   W.SedSludge
  ------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------
  Height                                                  H.SedSludge
  Ancho de la tapadera                                    W.SedDrainCover
  Grosor de la tapadera                                   T.SedSludge
  Diameter of the sludge orifices                         D.SedSludgeOrifice
  Center-to-center distance between the sludge orifices   B.SedSludgeOrifices
  Número de orificios                                     N.SedSludgeOrifices

Table 11. Dimensions of the sludge drain

### Tolvas

Cada tanque tiene una tolva de AN.SedSlope de inclinación y una
elevación de Z.SedSlopes. Esta geometría crea mayores velocidades en el
fondo del tanque que en la parte superior de la tolva, lo cual sirve
para mantener los flóculos sedimentados en suspensión, maximizando el
potencial de floculación y retención de partículas en un manto de lodo.
La velocidad ascendente del agua en la parte superior de la tolva se
fija en V~ascendente~ = 69 m/día (8 mm/s) en la herramienta de diseño de
AguaClara.

### Plate settlers

Plate settlers, used to remove small particulates that cannot settle in
the bottom of the tank, sit above the slopes in the sedimentation tank.
The plate settlers are set an an angle of AN.SedPlate to ensure
efficient sedimentation. Los algoritmos de diseño de la AguaClara Design
Tool utilizan el constante de la velocidad de captura V~c~ = 9.0 m/día
(0.104 mm/s) que garantiza una velocidad conservadora para un alta
remoción de sólidos.

Cada canal del tanque de sedimentación de la planta tiene un total de
N.SedPlates placas sedimentadoras organizadas en N.SedModules módulos de
N.SedModulePlates placas. Los módulos descansan en un marco de tubería
de PVC colocado en la parte superior de las tolvas.

  Width of the plate settlers                      W.SedPlate
  ------------------------------------------------ -------------------
  Length of the plate settlers                     L.SedPlate
  Center-to-center spacing of the plate settlers   B.SedPlate
  Number of plate settlers                         N.SedPlates
  Number of plate settler modules                  N.SedModules
  Number of plate settlers in each module          N.SedModulePlates

Table 12. Dimensions of the plate settlers

### Launders

En el tanque de sedimentación el agua pasa por el tubo distribuidor en
el fondo, la tolva, y las placas sedimentadoras. Al salir de las placas
el agua ya está decantada o aclarada. Sale del tanque por un tubo
recolector perforado ubicado inmediatamente sobre la parte superior de
las placas. El tubo recolector está diseñado para proporcionar
significativamente más pérdida de carga hidráulica en las pérdidas
menores de los orificios perforados que en las pérdidas mayores
ocasionadas por el flujo turbulento dentro del tubo, de tal manera que
el flujo que entra el tubo recolector por los orificios es uniforme a lo
largo del tanque. Por esta razón cada tubo recolector de ND.SedLaunder
de diámetro lleva N.SedLaunderOrifices agujeros de D.SedLaunderOrifice
de diámetro espaciados a B.sedLaunderOrifices de centro a centro en
N.SedLaunderOrificesRow filas en la parte superior del tubo. Este diseño
tiene el beneficio de crear un sobrenadante sobre el tubo recolector que
evita que material flotante en la superficie del agua salga del tanque
de sedimentación.

![](media/image34.png){width="5.177083333333333in"
height="1.7916666666666667in"}

Figure 15: The launder in a sedimentation bay

+---------------------------------------+-------------------------+
| Number of orifices in the launder     | > N.SedLaunderOrifices. |
+=======================================+=========================+
| Nominal diameter of the launder       | ND.SedLaunder.          |
+---------------------------------------+-------------------------+
| Elevation of the launder              | Z.SedLaunder.           |
+---------------------------------------+-------------------------+
| Total number of launders in the plant | N.Launders.             |
+---------------------------------------+-------------------------+
| Length of each launder                | L.SedLaunder.           |
+---------------------------------------+-------------------------+

Table 13. Launder dimensions

#### Canal de salida

El agua decantada sale de los tubos recolectores a un canal recolector
de salida que lleva el agua al proceso de desinfección. Este canal tiene
dimensiones de H.ExitChannel de profundidad, W.ExitChannel de ancho, y
L.ExitChannel de largo. Un vertedero longitudinal de cresta aguda de
H.SedExitChannelWeir de elevación en medio del canal garantiza que los
tanques de sedimentación se mantienen llenos de agua con un mínimo de
pérdida ocasionada por el vertedero.

#### Chlorine Disinfection

Se dosifica una solución de hipoclorito de calcio al agua decantada en
la caja distribuidora al final del canal de salida. El sistema de
dosificación de cloro es parecido al del coagulante y consiste en:
tambos para almacenar la solución de cloro, una mesa para elevar los
tambos, y un dosificador sencillo gravitacional.

Se monta el dosificador sencillo en el borde de la caja distribuidora de
tal manera que las gotas de cloro caen al efluente de la planta, donde
se mezclan con el agua. El operador de la planta maneja la manguera
dosificadora de este dispositivo para escoger la dosis apropiada de
cloro para el caudal que se trata. Hay suficiente tiempo de contacto en
las líneas de conducción y los tanques de abastecimiento para lograr la
desinfección. La válvula flotadora del dosificador sencilla se posiciona
sobre el borde de la solera superior del canal de salida. La mesa para
los tambos de cloro debe ser diseñada con una elevación suficiente para
proporcionar la carga hidráulica necesaria para que la solución de cloro
pueda llegar a la botella con flotador, superando las pérdidas
ocasionadas por la válvula flotadora y la manguera de suministro. Se
almacenan las soluciones de cloro en dos tambos colocados encima de la
mesa.

![](media/image35.png){width="6.5in" height="3.5833333333333335in"}

Figure 16: Diagrama de un dosificador de cloro

![](media/image36.png){width="6.489583333333333in"
height="3.7395833333333335in"}

Figure 17: Fotografía de un dosificador de cloro en una de las plantas
existentes de AguaClara

#### Manejo de lodos

Cada proceso de la planta produce residuos. El tanque de entrada produce
sólidos sedimentables, los tambos de coagulante residuos de impurezas de
la solución química, los tanques de floculación y sedimentación lodos de
flóculos, y los tambos de cloro residuos químicos. Hay dos salidas de
lodos principales. La primera salida es el canal de lodos del tanque de
entrada, que tiene un ancho de W.EtDC, un largo de L.EtDC, y una altura
de H.EtDC. La segunda salida recoge los residuos de los procesos de
floculación y sedimentación y conduce los residuos a un canal de
limpieza ubicado a lo largo de la pared posterior de la planta. El
acceso a las válvulas manuales de floculación y sedimentación es a
través de tapaderas en el pasillo que cubre el canal de limpieza. Este
pasillo queda debajo del piso del resto de la planta para permitir
acceso manual a las válvulas. Esta salida tiene una altura de H.DC, una
longitud de L.DC, y un ancho de W.DC.

#### Stacked Rapid Sand Filtration: SRSF

  Number of Filters            N.Fi              
  ---------------------------- ----------------- ------------------
  Wall Thickness               T.FiWall          
  Flow through single Filter   Q.Fi              
  Bottom Elevation             Z.FiBottom        
  *Sand*                                         
  Number of Filter Layers      N.FiLayer         
  Height of Filter Layers      H.FiLayer         
  Height of Bottommost Layer   H.FiBottomLayer   
  Height of Sand               H.FiSand          
  d~60~                        D.FiSand60        
  Porosity                     Porosity.Sand     
  *Trunk Lines*                                  
  Main Trunk Diameter          ND.FiTrunk        
  Backwash Trunk Diameter      ND.FiBwTrunk      
  *Branches*                                     
                               Main Layers       Backwash Layer
  Branch Diameter              ND.FiManBranch    ND.FiBwManBranch
  Slot Spacing                 B.FiManSlot       B.FiBwManSlot
                                                 

Las plantas de AguaClara cuentan con un sistema de filtración no
convencional. Comúnmente, solamente plantas de grandes caudales pueden
permitirse la incorporación de un filtro de arena. Los filtros de arena
convencionales usan grandes cantidades de agua limpia para el
retrolavado, electricidad, y son de construcción y mantenimiento
complejo, incluyendo varias válvulas y piezas que se rompen con
facilidad y son difíciles de reponer.

Por estas razones, el equipo de AguaClara ha diseñado un filtro con unas
restricciones de diseño que no use electricidad, evite el uso de
válvulas y piezas caras y de difícil obtención, que use poca agua, que
cada parte del filtro sea visible y accesible para el operador, y que
sea de fácil manejo.

Usando los principios de perdida de cabeza y aprovechando las
diferencias de altura del agua, el equipo de AguaClara creo un diseño de
tres filtros de arena en uno (FRAMCa). Este diseño reduce la cantidad de
agua que se necesita, y gracias a su tamaño compacto y sencillo, una
planta de relativamente poco flujo puede contar con tres filtros de
arena.

Filtration begins once the settled water leaves the sedimentation tank.
To ensure the filter functions optimally, the water must be sufficiently
treated at the start of the process to a low turbidity. The filter must
be washed regularly to liberate particulates trapped in the void space
of the filter media. Once the water leaves the filter, it is sent to a
distribution tank where chlorine is applied to destroy the last of the
particulates.

![](media/image37.png){width="6.1875in" height="3.40625in"}

Figure 18. ( Left) Top view of the sedimentation tank and a single
filter below it. (Right) Isometric view of the filtration unit and
sedimentation tank.

The SRSF has eight components:an entrance channel, an entrance box, a
filter box, a distribution tank, caja de salida, caja de rebose, a
backwash channel, a backwash box, and a siphon.

Figure 17 and **Error! Reference source not found.** show the layout of
the filter. Water from the sedimentation tank enters the entrance
channel then into the entrance box over a weir, flowing into the inlet
manifold pipes. During filtration, all four pipes are utilized to
distribute flow evenly to each of the six sand layers in the filter box
and flow exits through the exit manifold into the exit box. Once in the
exit box, the filtered water flows over a weir and is then piped to a
distribution tank.

Figure 16**Error! Reference source not found.** more clearly shows the
parts of the filter associated with backwash. For backwash operation,
all water in the entrance channel will only flow through the bottom
inlet manifold pipe. The dirty backwash water will then flow through the
siphon into the backwash box. The backwash weir makes up one wall of the
backwash box and controls the height of water throughout the filtration
system. The dirty water flows over the weir from the backwash box into
the backwash overflow box, then down a pipe to the drain channel.

![](media/image38.png){width="6.1875in" height="3.4583333333333335in"}

Figure 19. Top view of the filter labeled for filtration flow.

![](media/image39.png){width="5.78125in" height="4.604166666666667in"}

The siphon must be large enough to allow for draining all the water in
the filter in a reasonable amount of time, set to be 3 minutes as well
as have less than 10 cm of head loss at steady state.

Materials List
==============

Esta seccion describe parametros utiles y estimaciones de los materials
necesarios para la construccion de esta planta. Las dimensiones y
materials descritas aqui estan divididas acorde a la unidad operacional
de la planta a la que pertenecen.

### Entrance Tank

-   El volumen de concreto necesario para construir el tanque de entrada
    es Vol.EntranceTank.

-   El suelo del tanque de entrada tiene un area de A.EtFloor.

### Flocculation Tank

-   El volume de concreto necesario para construir los suelos del tanque
    de floculacion es Vol.FlocFloor y Vol.FlocWallsn par alas paredes
    del tanque.

-   Este suelo tiene un area de A.FlocFloor.

-   Hay N.FlocValves valvulas en el tanque de floculacion , cada una con
    un día metro nominal de ND.FlocValve.

-   Esta planta no tiene laminas de plastico.

### Sedimentation Tank

-   Los volumenes de concreto necesario para construir el tanque de
    sedimentación son:

  Vol.SedSlopes   Para las tolvas del tanque
  --------------- -----------------------------
  Vol.SedWalls    Para las paredes del tanque
  Vol.SedFloor    Para el suelo del tanque

-   El area de la superficie del tanque de sedimentación es A.SedFloor.

-   Hay N.Launders tuberias de salida de agua limpia, cada una de
    longitude L.SedLaunder length y ND.SedLaunder de día metro. Cada
    tuberia de salida tiene dos filas de orificios con un total de
    N.SedLaunderOrifices orificios, cada uno de día metro
    D.SedLaunderOrifice.

-   Cada una de las tuberias distribuidoras tiene longitud de
    L.SedManifoldPipe, con un día metro nominal de ND.SedManifold. Hay
    N.SedBays tuberias distribuidoras.

-   Hay un total de N.SedPlatesTotal placas sedimentadoras, cada una de
    longitud L.SedPlate y W.SedPlate de ancho.

-   Hay N.Valves valvulas, cada una de ND.SedSludgeValve día metro
    nominal.

### SRSF
